Deep learning (#12)
greenelab/knowledge-graph-review: content/04.network_applications.md

#### Deep Learning

Deep learning is a paradigm that excels in mapping high dimensional data into a low dimensional space.

> Most techniques under this paradigm have flourished based on a popular natural language processing approach called Word2Vec [@arxiv:1310.4546; @arxiv:1301.3781].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many techniques that use deep learning for knowledge graphs are based on Word2Vec [@arxiv:1310.4546; @arxiv:1301.3781], a set of approaches that are popular for natural language processing.
```

> Word2Vec projects words into a low dimensional space that preserves their semantic meaning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Word2Vec projects words into a low dimensional space that preserves their semantic meaning.
```
```suggestion
The goal of a Word2Vec model is to project words into a low dimensional space that preserves their semantic meaning.
```
What is caps supposed to be like here on Word2Vec? I feel like I usually see it as word2vec but I'm not sure if that's the canonical representation.

> This approach uses one of two neural network models, skip-gram and continuous bag of words (CBOW), to accomplish this projection task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This approach uses one of two neural network models, skip-gram and continuous bag of words (CBOW), to accomplish this projection task.
```
```suggestion
Strategies for Word2Vec use one of two neural network models, skip-gram and continuous bag of words (CBOW).
```

> Both models are feed-forward neural networks that are trained to either predict a word given it's context (CBOW) or the context given a word (skip-gram).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both models are feed-forward neural networks, but CBOW models are trained to either predict a word given it's context while skip-gram models are trained to predict the context given a word.
```

> Once either network has been trained, the finalized network weights are used to represent words and their meaning.

Reviewer: I don't understand what you're saying here.

> We discuss approaches that use this central idea to project nodes into a low dimensional space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Deepwalk [@arxiv:1403.6652] was one of the originating methods to project a knowledge graph into a low dimensional space. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deepwalk [@arxiv:1403.6652] was one of the originating methods to project a knowledge graph into a low dimensional space. 
```
```suggestion
Deepwalk [@arxiv:1403.6652] is an early method designed to project a knowledge graph into a low dimensional space. 
```

> First step of this method is to undergo a random walk along a knowledge graph to ascertain how nodes are connected to one another.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First step of this method is to undergo a random walk along a knowledge graph.
```

During the random walk, every generated sequence of nodes is recorded and treated like a sentence in the word2vec model [@arxiv:1310.4546; @arxiv:1301.3781].
After every node has been processed, a skip-gram model is trained to predict the context of each node thereby projecting a knowledge graph into a low dimensional space [@arxiv:1403.6652].

> A caveat to this method is that the random walk takes an unbiased way to traverse each node.

Reviewer: I don't understand the implications of the caveat - the next sentence might need to tell me what type of applications this hurts.

This may not be suitable given for some knowledge graph applications.

> Some approaches fixed this problem by updating their random walk algorithm [@doi:10.1145/2736277.2741093; @arxiv:1607.00653]; however, these methods do not take edge type and node type into account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some approaches fixed this problem by updating their random walk algorithm [@doi:10.1145/2736277.2741093; @arxiv:1607.00653]; however, these methods do not take edge type and node type into account.
```
```suggestion
Newer approaches use a modified random walk algorithm [@doi:10.1145/2736277.2741093; @arxiv:1607.00653]; however, these methods do not currently account for different edge and node types.
```

> Based on this problem, other approaches have evolved to take edge and type information into account [@doi:10.1145/3097983.3098036; @arxiv:1809.02269; @arxiv:1808.05611].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Certainly newly designed approaches can also use information about node and edge types [@doi:10.1145/3097983.3098036; @arxiv:1809.02269; @arxiv:1808.05611].
```

> Most of these approaches capture a networks local structure, but a future direction is to consider creating embeddings that capture both the local and global structure of a network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These approaches primarily capture a network's local structure: more work is needed to build embeddings that capture both the local and global structure of a network.
```

> Besides using Word2Vec [@arxiv:1310.4546; @arxiv:1301.3781] inspired approaches, some deep learning approaches can use an adjacency matrix as input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some deep learning approaches use an adjacency matrix as input [@arxiv:1310.4546; @arxiv:1301.3781] instead of using the word2vec framing.
```

> Algorithms such as auto-encoders can be used to generate embeddings [@arxiv:1802.08352; @arxiv:1611.07308; @arxiv:1802.04407].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Algorithms such as auto-encoders can also generate network embeddings [@arxiv:1802.08352; @arxiv:1611.07308; @arxiv:1802.04407].
```

Autoencoders [@arxiv:1404.7828] are neural networks that map adjacency matrices into a low dimensional space.

> This nerual network is trained by mapping the matrix into a low dimensional span and then reconstructs the same matrix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This neural network is trained by mapping the matrix into a low dimensional span and then reconstructs the same matrix.
```

Reviewer: Also - span or space?

The generated latent space captures the structure of the knowledge graph and the nodes are mapped onto this space.
Despite the high potential of this approach, this method relies on an adjacency matrix for input.

> If a knowledge graph asymtotically increases in size, these approaches could run into scalability issues.

Reviewer: Interesting. I usually think about these types of approaches as _more_ scalable than something like a decomposition of the adjacency matrix as the network grows in size. Perhaps because you can learn from one row of the matrix at a time instead of having to have the entire thing in memory. Is there some sort of memory/compute time tradeoff between this and something like word2vec? When would you pick one vs the other? Would a word2vec model also need more training examples as the number of different nodes increases?

#### Deep Learning

> Deep learning is a paradigm that excels in mapping high dimensional data into a low dimensional space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deep learning is a paradigm that uses multiple non-linear transformations to map high dimensional data into a low dimensional space.
```
How about this? Doesn't get into a judgement call about how good it is :)

> Many techniques that use deep learning for knowledge graphs are based on word2vec [@arxiv:1310.4546; @arxiv:1301.3781], a set of approaches that are popular for natural language processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many techniques that use deep learning for knowledge graphs are based on word2vec [@arxiv:1310.4546; @arxiv:1301.3781], a set of approaches that are widely used for natural language processing.
```

The goal of word2vec is to project words into a low dimensional space that preserves their semantic meaning.

> Strategies for word2vec use one of two neural network models, skip-gram and continuous bag of words (CBOW).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Strategies for training word2vec models use one of two neural network architectures: skip-gram and continuous bag of words (CBOW).
```

> Both models are feed-forward neural networks, but CBOW models are trained to either predict a word given it's context while skip-gram models are trained to predict the context given a word [@arxiv:1310.4546; @arxiv:1301.3781].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both models are feed-forward neural networks, but CBOW models are trained to predict a word given it's context while skip-gram models are trained to predict the context given a word [@arxiv:1310.4546; @arxiv:1301.3781].
```

Once training has finished, words are now associated with dense vectors that downstream models, such as feed forward networks or recurrent networks, can use for input.

Deepwalk [@arxiv:1403.6652] is an early method designed to project a knowledge graph into a low dimensional space. 

> First step of this method is to undergo a random walk along a knowledge graph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first step of this method is to perform a random walk along a knowledge graph.
```

During the random walk, every generated sequence of nodes is recorded and treated like a sentence in word2vec [@arxiv:1310.4546; @arxiv:1301.3781].
After every node has been processed, a skip-gram model is trained to predict the context of each node thereby projecting a knowledge graph into a low dimensional space [@arxiv:1403.6652].
A limitation of this method is that the random walk cannot be controlled, so every node has an equal chance to be reached.
Grover and Leskovec [@arxiv:1607.00653] demonstrated that this limitation can hurt performance when classifying edges between nodes and developed node2vec as a result.
Node2vec [@arxiv:1607.00653] operates the in the same fashion as deepwalk; however, this algorithm specifies a parameter that lets the random walk be biased when traversing nodes.
A caveat to both deepwalk and node2vec is that both algorithms ignore information such as edge type and node type.
Various approaches have evolved to fix this limitation by incorporating  node, edge and even path types when projecting nodes into a low dimensional space [@arxiv:1704.03165; @doi:10.1145/3097983.3098036; @arxiv:1809.02269; @arxiv:1808.05611].

> Majority of these approaches primarily capture a network's local structure; however, an open area of work is to develop approaches that capture both the local and global structure of a network when projecting knowledge graphs into a low dimensional space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These approaches primarily capture a network's local structure. An emerging area of work is to develop approaches that capture both the local and global structure of a network when projecting knowledge graphs into a low dimensional space.
```

Some deep learning approaches use an adjacency matrix as input [@arxiv:1310.4546; @arxiv:1301.3781] instead of using the word2vec framing.
Algorithms such as auto-encoders can also generate network embeddings [@arxiv:1802.08352; @arxiv:1611.07308; @arxiv:1802.04407].
Autoencoders [@arxiv:1404.7828; @raw:Baldi2011] are neural networks that map input such as an adjacency matrices into a low dimensional space and then learns how to construct this space by reconstructing the same input.
The generated low dimensional space captures the node connectivity structure of the knowledge graph and every node is mapped onto this space [@arxiv:1802.08352; @arxiv:1611.07308; @arxiv:1802.04407].
Despite the high potential of this approach, this method relies on an adjacency matrix for input.
If a knowledge graph asymptotically increases in size, these approaches could run into scalability issues as discovered by Khosla et al. [@arxiv:1903.07902].
Plus, Khosla et al.[@arxiv:1903.07902] discovered that approaches akin to node2vec outperformed algorithms using autoencoders when undergoing link prediction and node classification.

> Overall, performance of these models largely depend upon the structure of nodes and edges within a knowledge graph [@arxiv:1903.07902].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Overall, the performance of these models largely depends upon the structure of nodes and edges within a knowledge graph [@arxiv:1903.07902].
```

> Future approaches should consider creating a hybrid models that utilizes both node2vec and autoencoders to construct low dimensional representations of knowledge graphs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Future approaches should consider creating hybrid models that use both node2vec and autoencoders to construct complementary low dimensional representations of knowledge graphs.
```
